Let's talk about because I know you're a
proponent of the ketogenic diet which
you've just mentioned as a promising
anti-aging interventions but why don't
we talk about diet and lifestyle
strategies. I really do want to get into
um exercise as well and how that plays a
role. Well, diet and lifestyle, you
know, a keto, we listen, when I first
started doing all this stuff many, many,
many years ago, uh, we were doing
calorie restriction. Um, and and we knew
that calorie, which turns out to be
water only fasting. So, we were seeing
really spectacular effects in in in mice
by water only fasting. But then we said,
oh man, who's going to want to do this?
They're going to think you're a nut
going out. What how am I going to man?
Oh, don't drink don't eat anything for
30 days. who the you know, right? I
mean, you think this guy's crazy. So, we
said, "Oh, what can we do to this?" I
worked in the epilepsy clinics at with
the epilepsy at Yale University for nine
years down there. So, we were working on
on on ketogenic diets and this type of
thing for a long time. And um and we
knew I was, you know, I I started the
ketogenic diet workshops because in in
the field of epilepsy, ketogenic diets
are acceptable as a way to manage
seizures in little kids. So uh and it
became acceptable in that part of
neurology uh neurological problems. But
for cancer um we we didn't want to say
go starve yourself. So we said why don't
we do a ketogenic diet. It's just
reducing blood sugar and elevating
ketones in a more natural way. So then
all of a sudden the diet crazies got
involved with this. Oh you got to do
this. What can I eat? What? So then we
developed the glucose ketone index
calculator which we developed here at
Boston College which lowers the blood
sugar and elevates the ketones
regardless of what the hell you want to
eat. You want to eat a you want to be a
vegan, go ahead, be a vegan. You want to
be a carnivore, be that. You want to be
a Mediterranean pescatarian, I don't
care what you want to be. Just get your
GKI 1.0 below and you're going to start
putting metabolic pressure on this. So
uh on these cancer cells so people
always ask me, "Oh, he didn't say what I
should." I don't give a damn what you
can eat. Just bring your GKI down and
you say, "Well, I tried and it didn't go
down." Well, why don't you try something
else and see if you can get it down? And
if it doesn't go down, do water only
fasting. It'll definitely go down. Yeah.
And then add food back and find out what
you can and cannot eat. Everybody is
their own experiment in this particular
case. There's no universal thing that
works for everybody uh the same way. So,
so you have to then experiment on your
own body and say, "Okay, what do I need
to do? Uh, is it a keto diet, a
Mediterranean diet, a pescatarian diet,
you know, carnivore diet? What is the
best diet to get me into a low GKI,
which is a low glucose ketone index?
Then you're going to start putting the
metabolic pressure on these tumor cells.
Then you come in with the with the drugs
that target glutamine. So yeah, diet.
Now, exercise is absolutely essential
for the therapeutic efficacy of this
process because we found that exercise
does two things. Number one, it lowers
glutamine. That's great. Exercise itself
will lower blood glutamine. Number two,
when you're burning uh when you're
exercising, your muscles are taking in
uh u glucose from the bloodstream and
converting it into glycogen or burning
it on the spot. So, um muscle and brain
get most of the glucose in the body. The
brain takes glucose but can switch to
ketones, but will always take the
glucose. muscle. If you're exercising,
the muscles are going to take in
glucose. Who's the lowest guy on the
totem pole to get the sacred glucose?
It's a damn tumor cell. So, he's once
your body is in nutritional ketosis and
you are exercising, those tumor cells
are going to be under a world of hurt.
And then you come in with the blast on
the side with the glutamine targeting
drugs and you blast these things out,
you know, for the most part. Uh, and we
can, this is where the cutting edge is
right now. How many different glutamine
targeting drugs can we use? some of
these parasite medications. We've have a
paper out showing that they target
glutamine, too. So, and glucose
simultaneously. It's a package of
finding out what works best for each
cancer patient to keep them in a high
quality exercise state, very healthy,
eating the right foods to keep a low GKI
while they're slowly slowly degrading
their tumor. So, uh and often what we
see is also the diabetes goes away, the
obesity goes away, of course. Yes. all
these other chronic problems go away
along with the cancer. This was in our
press pulse paper. We published this.
So, let's uh you know, look, I I'm
telling you after the last um I've heard
the word ketogenic as it relates to
psychiatric disorders, as it relates to
obviously type 2 diabetes, metabolic
dysfunction, now cancer. I know that I
discuss it with Alzheimer's disease
patients, which is my primary area of
research. And so it's becoming more and
more clear to me that this ketogenic
lifestyle, albeit a hard one to get
into. I bought the Keto Mojo um testing
strips. Very hard to get into. And and
let me tell you, I had an orange as an
experiment and that just pushed me
straight out of nutritional ketosis. Oh,
absolutely. Absolutely. Try a Coca-Cola.
Try a Coca-Cola. See what that does. We
did that. It's like hitting the bell in
the circus. You know, the thing goes up
and rings the bell. Exactly. It's
unbelievable.